# Cloud Computing Project

The Cloud WebApp is a cloud-native and RESTful API-driven web application developed using JavaScript, Node.JS, and Express.JS. It features data bootstrap, token-based authentication, and password hashing for enhanced security. The project also utilizes Infrastructure as Code (IaC) principles with Pulumi and Python to automate AWS services, deploy and run the software across AWS cloud architecture, ensuring a secure and scalable cloud infrastructure. Additionally, the project establishes a Continuous Integration and Continuous Deployment (CI/CD) pipeline using Packer and GitHub Actions and implements robust monitoring and logging through AWS services to observe and visualize application performance.

### Features

- **RESTful API**: Implements a RESTful API architecture to facilitate communication between the client-side and server-side components of the application.

- **Token-Based Authentication**: Utilizes token-based authentication to securely authenticate users and authorize access to protected resources.

- **Password Hashing**: Implements password hashing techniques to securely store user passwords in the database, enhancing data security.

- **Infrastructure as Code (IaC)**: Utilizes Pulumi with Python to define and manage cloud infrastructure resources as code, enabling automated provisioning, configuration, and deployment of AWS services.

- **CI/CD Pipeline**: Establishes a CI/CD pipeline using Packer and GitHub Actions to automate the building, testing, and deployment of application updates, ensuring rapid and reliable delivery of software changes.

- **Monitoring and Logging**: Implements robust monitoring and logging solutions through AWS services to track application performance, identify issues, and troubleshoot errors effectively.

### Installation

1. **Clone Repository**: Clone the repository to your local machine.
   
2. **Set Up AWS/GCP Account**: You have to set up your own AWS/GCP account to use the cloud service. Pleasse refer to the README and yaml file in "awsgcp".

3. **Setup Node.js Environment**: Ensure you have Node.js and npm (Node Package Manager) installed on your system. If not, download and install Node.js from the official website.

4. **Install Dependencies**: Navigate to the project directory and install dependencies using the following command:
   ```
   npm install
   ```

6. **Configure Environment Variables**: Set up environment variables for the application, including database connection strings, API keys, and authentication secrets. Refer to the `.env.example` file for guidance.

7. **Run the Application**: Start the application by running the following command:
   ```
   npm start
   ```

8. **Access the API**: Access the RESTful API endpoints using tools like Postman or curl, and authenticate using token-based authentication.

### Usage

1. **API Endpoints**: Explore and interact with the available API endpoints to perform CRUD operations on resources such as users, products, orders, and more.

2. **Authentication**: Authenticate users by obtaining and using access tokens generated by the authentication server. Ensure proper authorization is enforced for protected resources.

3. **Cloud Infrastructure**: Leverage the automated infrastructure provisioning and deployment capabilities provided by Pulumi to manage and scale AWS and GCP resources efficiently.

4. **CI/CD Pipeline**: Monitor and manage the CI/CD pipeline to automate the software delivery process, from code changes to production deployment.

5. **Monitoring and Logging**: Utilize AWS monitoring and logging services to gain insights into application performance, detect anomalies, and troubleshoot issues effectively.

### Contributing

Contributions to the project are welcome! Please fork the repository, make your changes, and submit a pull request for review.

### License

This project is licensed under the MIT License. See the `LICENSE` file for details.

### Contact

For inquiries or support, please contact me.
